# Machine Learning (ML)
---
[Go Back](UNIOVI/3S2_IntSys/README.md)

---
## Definition
> **Machine Learning (ML)** is a field of Artificial Intelligence (AI) that studies statistical algorithms that can learn from data to perform tasks without explicit instructions.
## ML Problems
- Supervised (classes)
	- Classification (discrete values)
	- Regression (continuous values)
	- Ranking (order)
- Unsupervised (No classes)
- Dimensionality reduction
## Mathematical definition
- Given a dataset $S = \{(x_1, y_1), ..., (x_n, y_n)\}$
- Where
	- $X$ is the input $x_i \in X$ 
	- $Y$ is the output (classes) $y_i \in Y$ 
- We try to find $h: X \to Y$
- Such that we minimise the loss $\Delta(h(X), Y)$ for all test sets $S'$.
	- Classification: $\Delta(h(X), Y) = \frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=1}^n1_{h(x_i)\neq y_i}$
	- Regression MAE: $\Delta(h(X), Y) = \frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=1}^n|h(x_i)- y_i|$
	- Regression MSE: $\Delta(h(X), Y) = \frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=1}^n(h(x_i)- y_i)^2$
## Classifiers
- Zero R.
	- Predicts always the most frequent class in the dataset
	- Uses zero attribute values (rules)
- One R
	- Predict based on the value of 1 attribute. 1-level decision tree.
	- How?
		- For each attribute in $X$ finde the most frequent class.
		- Compute the error rate and choose the one with less.
- Instance based learning
	- Training instance represent the knowledge. Lazy learning.
	- For new instances it finds the one with closest resemblance them.
	- For numeric values we can use distance.
	- Example. k-Nearest Neighbor (kNN)
## Decision Trees
- Components
	- Nodes (questions or tests)
		- Nominal (is the value?)
		- Continuous (compare with threshold)
	- Leaves (prediction tags)
- How to build them?
	- Smallest tree
	- Heuristic. Choose purest nodes or with more information gain (popular)
