# Security
---
[Go Back](../README.md)

---
## Introduction
### Threats
- **Interception or leakage**. Unauthorised access to a service or data.
- **Interruption**. Service or data is no longer available.
- **Modification**. Data is modified or a service altered so it does not work as it should.
- **Manufacturing**. New data or new activity in a service that should not be there appears.
### Security policies and mechanisms
Mechanisms are used to force compliance with the security policies.
- **Cryptography**
- **Authorization** (access control)
- **Authentication**
- **Auditing** (Accounting)
### Cryptography
- **Phases**
	- Encryption or encoding
	- Decryption or decoding
- **Ways**
	- Primitive algorithms were based on the secrecy of the algorithm.
	- Modern algorithms are based on a cryptographic key (long sequence of bits).
- **Types of algorithms**
	- Symmetric key.
		- Use the same (symmetric) key for both encryption and decryption.
		- They use simple operations for transforming the bits of the message.
		- Communicating the value of the key is a problem.
	- Asymmetric key (private/public key)
		- One key for encryption and other for decryption. Mathematically related.
		- One key is made public and the other remains private.
		- The computational complexity is a problem.
- **Usage**
	- Large volumes of data.
		- Symmetric encryption for data. (more efficient)
		- Asymmetric encryption to share the key.
	- To guaranty authenticity
		- Asymmetric key pairs for digital signature and digital certificate.
### Cryptographic hash
- `H(m) = h` transforms a sequence of any number of bits into a fixed length sequence.
- Properties:
	- Having `h` is not possible to find a value `m'` such that `H(m') = h`
	- Weak collision resistance.
		- Knowing `h`, `m` and `H()` is not possible to find `m'` such that `H(m') = h` 
	- Strong collision resistance.
		- Knowing `H()` is impossible to find `m` and `m'` such that `H(m) = H(m')`
---
## Symmetric key cryptography
- Definition
	- Divides the information into several fixed-size blocks.
	- The encryption/decryption algorithm is applied to each block.
- Some algorithms
	- Data Encryption Standard (DES)
		- Developed by IBM and adopted by the US Government
		- 64-bit blocks with a 56-bit key.
		- Operations without specific reason raised suspicion that it may have a back door.
	- Advances Encryption Standard (AES)
		- Successor of DES and current standard.
		- 128-bit blocks and keys of 128, 192 and 256 bits.
		- Blocks arranged in 