# The cloud
---
[Go Back](../README.md)

---
## IT needs
- Buy necessary hardware and hire personal for maintenance and services administration.
	- High initial costs of acquiring the hardware and equipment.
	- If needs are not correctly calculated:
		- If undersized, additional costs and time of acquiring new hardware
		- If oversized, costs of underutilised resources.
	- Costs of energy consumption, repairs, etc.
- Rent hardware and subcontract maintenance personnel.
	- If additional hardware is needed, negotiation and start-up time may be necessary.
	- If it is no longer needed, the minimum period contacted must still be paid.
---
## Cloud computing
### Introduction
- Definition
	- Provides network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources.
	- These can be provisiones and released quickly with minimum effort and management.
- Properties
	- On-demand self-service
	- Access via broadband network (location is irrelevant)
	- Measured service (pay per use)
	- Resource pool. (less custom configuration)
	- Quick elasticity (resources are procured and released in a very short time)
- Software design (IDEAL)
	- Isolated State (application components run separately)
	- Distributed Architecture
	- Elastic design. (horizontal scalability)
	- Automated management
	- Loose Coupling. Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) concepts.
- Advantages
	- No entry costs.
	- Automatic, fast resource provisioning based on load.
	- Optimized costs. Pay for what you use.
### Types of load
- **Stable or static load**. Constant or with minimum variations.
- **Periodic load**. Peaks at regular intervals (very common)
- **Once in a lifetime load**. Large spike that is no longer repeated (global events)
- **Unpredictable load**. Irregular interval peaks.
- **Gradual load**. Grows (or declines) at a constant rate